#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/Bullet.h# BWAPI/Bullet.h]

The Bullet class is used to get information about individual bullets, missiles, spells, and generally any sort of non-melee attack. Unlike Units, Bullet objects are reused after they are destroyed, however the ID of the bullet is updated when it represents a new bullet.

If [Misc#Flag Flag::CompleteMapInformation] is disabled, then a bullet is accessible if and only if it is visible. If a bullet is not visible, [Bullet#exists Bullet::exists] will return false, regardless of whether or not the bullet exists. This is because absolutely no state information on invisible enemy bullets is made available to the AI.

If [Misc#Flag Flag::CompleteMapInformation] is enabled, then all bullets that exist in the game are accessible, and [Bullet#exists Bullet::exists] is accurate for all bullets.

No message similar to [AIModule#onUnitDestroy AIModule::onUnitDestroy] exists for bullets. To determine if a bullet has been destroyed, check to see if exists() is false or getID() has changed to a new value.

Methods:

 * [#getID getID]
 * [#getPlayer getPlayer]
 * [#getType getType]
 * [#getSource getSource]
 * [#getPosition getPosition]
 * [#getAngle getAngle]
 * [#getVelocityX getVelocityX]
 * [#getVelocityY getVelocityY]
 * [#getTarget getTarget]
 * [#getTargetPosition getTargetPosition]
 * [#getRemoveTimer getRemoveTimer]
 * [#exists exists]
 * [#isVisible isVisible]

=== getID ===
int getID() const;

Returns a unique ID for this bullet.

=== getPlayer ===
[Player]{{{*}}} getPlayer() const;

Returns the player of the source unit, or NULL if the source unit has been destroyed or is otherwise inaccessible.

=== getType ===
[BulletType] getType() const;

Returns the type of the bullet.

=== getSource ===
[Unit]{{{*}}} getSource() const;

Returns the unit that fired the bullet. If the unit is inaccessible (such as a cloaked or burrowed enemy unit with no detection around and complete map information disabled), this will return NULL.

=== getPosition ===
[Misc#Position Position] getPosition() const;

Returns the position of the bullet, or an invalid position if the bullet is inaccessible.

=== getAngle ===
double getAngle() const;

Returns the direction the bullet is facing/traveling in, measured in radians. An angle of 0 means the bullet is facing east/right. If the bullet is inaccessible this will return 0.

=== getVelocityX ===
double getVelocityX() const;

Returns the x component of the bullet's velocity, measured in pixels per frame. If the bullet is inaccessible this will return 0.

=== getVelocityY ===
double getVelocityY() const;

Returns the y component of the bullet's velocity, measured in pixels per frame. If the bullet is inaccessible this will return 0.

=== getTarget ===
[Unit]{{{*}}} getTarget() const;

Returns the unit that the bullet is trying to hit. If the unit is inaccessible (such as a cloaked or burrowed enemy unit with no detection around and complete map information disabled), this will return NULL. If the bullet is inaccessible this will return NULL.

=== getTargetPosition ===
[Misc#Position Position] getTargetPosition() const;

Returns the target position of the bullet. If the bullet is inaccessible this will return an invalid position.

=== getRemoveTimer ===
int getRemoveTimer() const;

Returns the maximum number of frames until this bullet is removed. Generally bullets hit their targets before this timer reaches 0. If the bullet is inaccessible this will return 0.

=== exists ===
bool exists() const;

Returns true if the bullet is accessible. If [Misc#Flag Flag::CompleteMapInformation] is enabled, all bullets that actually exist in the game will be accessible. If it is disabled, then only visible bullets will be accessible.

=== isVisible ===
bool isVisible() const;

bool isVisible([Player]{{{*}}} player) const;

Returns true if the bullet is visible.

If [Misc#Flag Flag::CompleteMapInformation] is enabled, you can also specify to which player you want to check visibility for, otherwise [Game#self Game::self] is used.