This page will be used to store what is known about the structure of dat files

unitsDat:

  * 0 - graphics
  * 1 - subunit1
  * 2 - subunit2
  * 3 - unknown. lots of values are 228 or 257.
  * 4 - unknown. 0 for most things
  * 5 - direction
  * 6 - has shields
  * 7 - shield points
  * 8 - max health points not attackable repairable
  * 9 - elevation
  * 10 - unknown. Possibly a bit field of some source
  * 11 - rank/sublabel
  * 12 - unknown. Mostly 2 for units and critters and 156 for buildings
  * 13 - unknown. Usually 2 for units, 23 for buildings, and 166 for critters
  * 14 - unknown. Usually 2 for units, 23 for buildings, and 166 for critters
  * 15 - unknown. Mostly 10 for units, 23 for buildings, and 188 for critters
  * 16 - unknown. Usually 2 for units, 23 for buildings, and 188 for critters
  * 17 - ground weapon
  * 18 - max ground hits
  * 19 - air weapon
  * 20 - max air hits
  * 21 - unit AI interval
  * 22 - unit prototype flags
  * 23 - seek range
  * 24 - sight range
  * 25 - unknown, 60 for buildings and critters, 0-6 for most other things
  * 26 - unit size. 0 = independent, 1 = small, 2 = medium, 3 = large,
  * 27 - armor
  * 28 - unknown
  * 29 - ready sound
  * 30 - first what sound
  * 31 - last what sound
  * 32 - first annoyed sound
  * 33 - last annoyed sound
  * 34 - first yes sound
  * 35 - last yes sound
  * 36 - placement
  * 37 - unknown
  * 38 - dimensions
  * 39 - idle portrait
  * 40 - mineral price
  * 41 - gas price
  * 42 - build time
  * 43 - unknown, always 65535
  * 44 - prototype group flags
  * 45 - supply provided
  * 46 - supply required
  * 47 - space required
  * 48 - space provided
  * 49 - build score
  * 50 - destroy score

51 was all zeroes - probably the end of the dat.

weaponsDat:
  * 0 - unknown. smallest value is 229.
  * 1 - graphics
  * 2 - unknown. Mostly 44.
  * 3 - weapon target flags
  * 4 - min range (divide by 16 to get range in build tiles)
  * 5 - max range (divide by 16 to get range in build tiles)
  * 6
  * 7
  * 8
  * 9
  * 10
  * 11
  * 12
  * 13
  * 14 - damage amount
  * 15
  * 16
  * 17 - damage factor