#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/Event.h# BWAPI/Event.h]

Events correspond to [AIModule] callbacks and can be obtained by calling [Game#getEvents Game::getEvents].

Methods:

  * [#getType]
  * [#getPosition]
  * [#getText]
  * [#getUnit]
  * [#getPlayer]
  * [#isWinner]

=== getType ===
EventType::Enum getType() const;

Returns the type of the Event.

=== getPosition ===
Position getPosition() const;

Returns the Position. Used in EventType::NukeDetect.

=== getText ===
std::string& getText() const;

Returns the text. Used in EventType::SendText, EventType::ReceiveText, EventType::SaveGame.

=== getUnit ===
Unit{{{*}}} getUnit() const;

Returns the unit. Used in EventType::UnitDiscover, EventType::UnitEvade, EventType::UnitCreate, EventType::UnitDestroy, EventType::UnitShow, EventType::UnitHide, and EventType::UnitComplete.

=== getPlayer ===
Player{{{*}}} getPlayer() const;

Returns the player. Used in EventType::ReceiveText and EventType::PlayerLeft.

=== isWinner ===
bool isWinner() const;

Returns true if the BWAPI-controlled player is the winner. Used in EventType::MatchEnd.

=== Events ===

The EventType Enum contains the following values, which have been linked with their corresponding [AIModule] callbacks for more information:

  * [AIModule#onStart MatchStart]
  * [AIModule#onEnd MatchEnd]
  * [AIModule#onFrame MatchFrame]
  * [AIModule#onSendText SendText]
  * [AIModule#onReceiveText ReceiveText]
  * [AIModule#onPlayerLeft PlayerLeft]
  * [AIModule#onNukeDetect NukeDetect]
  * [AIModule#onUnitDiscover UnitDiscover]
  * [AIModule#onUnitEvade UnitEvade]
  * [AIModule#onUnitShow UnitShow]
  * [AIModule#onUnitHide UnitHide]
  * [AIModule#onUnitCreate UnitCreate]
  * [AIModule#onUnitDestroy UnitDestroy]
  * [AIModule#onUnitMorph UnitMorph]
  * [AIModule#onUnitRenegade UnitRenegade]
  * [AIModule#onSaveGame SaveGame]
  * None