#sidebar TableOfContents
= Map Coordinates =

There are three different types of map coordinates:

  * Positions are measured in pixels and are the highest resolution
  * Walk Tiles - each walk tile is an 8x8 square of pixels. These are called walk tiles because walkability data is available at this resolution.
  * Build Tiles - each build tile is a 4x4 square of walk tiles, or a 32x32 square of pixels. These are called build tiles because buildability data is available at this resolution, and correspond to the tiles seen in game. For example, a command center occupies an area of 4x3 build tiles. Build tiles can be specified in TilePosition objects.

= Position =

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/Position.h# BWAPI/Position.h]

Methods:
  * int x();
  * int y();
  * double getDistance(Position position);

== Special Positions ==
  * Invalid
  * None
  * Unknown

= TilePosition =

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/TilePosition.h# BWAPI/TilePosition.h]

Methods:
  * int x();
  * int y();
  * bool isValid();

== Special TilePositions ==
  * Invalid
  * None
  * Unknown

= Latency::Enum =

Header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/Latency.h# BWAPI/Latency.h]

Possible values:
  * SinglePlayer: 2
  * LanLow: 5
  * LanMedium: 7
  * LanHigh: 9
  * BattlenetLow: 14
  * BattlenetMedium: 19
  * BattlenetHigh: 24

= Flag::Enum =

Header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/Flag.h# BWAPI/Flag.h]

Possible values:
  * CompleteMapInformation - Enable to get information about all units on the map, not just the visible units.
  * UserInput - Enable to get information from the user (what units are selected, chat messages the user enters, etc)

= CoordinateType::Enum =

Header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/CoordinateType.h# BWAPI/CoordinateType.h]

Possible values:
  * Screen - (0,0) corresponds to the top left corner of the screen 
  * Map - (0,0) corresponds to the top left corner of the map 
  * Mouse - (0,0) corresponds to the tip of the mouse 

= Constants =

Header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/Constants.h# BWAPI/Constants.h]

  * TILE_SIZE = 32
   Used for converting between [#TilePosition TilePosition] coordinates and [#Position Position] coordinates.