#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/TechType.h# BWAPI/TechType.h]

List of all [TechTypes].

Methods:

  * [#getID getID]
  * [#getName getName]
  * [#getRace getRace]
  * [#mineralPrice mineralPrice]
  * [#gasPrice gasPrice]
  * [#energyUsed energyUsed]
  * [#whatResearches whatResearches]
  * [#getWeapon getWeapon]
  * [#whatUses whatUses]

Non-member methods in TechTypes namespace: 

  * [#getTechType getTechType]
  * [#allTechTypes allTechTypes]

=== getID ===
int getID() const;

Returns the unique ID for this tech type.

=== getName ===
std::string getName() const;

Returns the name of the tech type.

=== getRace ===
[Race] getRace() const;

Returns the race that uses the TechType. For example, TechTypes::Scanner_Sweep.getRace() will return Races::Terran.

=== mineralPrice ===
int mineralPrice() const;

Returns the mineral cost of the tech type.

=== gasPrice ===
int gasPrice() const;

Returns the vespene gas price of the tech type.

=== energyUsed ===
int energyUsed() const;

Returns the amount of energy used each time this tech type is used.

=== whatResearches ===
const [UnitType]{{{*}}} whatResearches() const;

Returns the type of unit that researches this tech type. If this tech type is available for free (does not need to be researched), then this method will return UnitTypes::None.

=== getWeapon ===
const [WeaponType]{{{*}}} getWeapon() const;

Returns the corresponding weapon for this tech type, or TechTypes::None if no corresponding weapon exists. For example, TechTypes::Dark_Swarm.getWeapon() will return a pointer to WeaponTypes::Dark_Swarm.

=== whatUses ===
const std::set<const [UnitType]{{{*}}}>& whatUses() const;

Returns the set of units that can use this tech type. Usually this will just be a set of one unit type, however in some cases, such as TechTypes::Burrowing, several unit types will be returned.

=== getTechType ===
[TechType] getTechType(std::string &name);

Given a string, this will return the tech type.

=== allTechTypes ===
std::set<[TechType]>& allTechTypes();

Returns the set of all the [TechTypes].