#summary Troubleshooting for BWAPI

This page helps solve common troubleshooting issues.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Developer Errors =
  == Fatal Error: LNK1257 ==
  The cause of this error is unknown, but may be related to different versions of the linker. Try using [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2008-editions/express Microsoft Visual C++ Express SP1]. If you have any information about this error or how to resolve it without switching to a different version, then please post an [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/issues/list Issue].

  == Fatal Error: C1047 ==
  This is caused when compiling with a different version of Visual C++ than we are using (VC++ 2010 for example). You will need to recompile BWAPI in order to work with the compiler you are using.

  See http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms173554%28v=vs.80%29.aspx for more information.

  BWAPI was compiled with [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/en-us/products/2008-editions/express Microsoft Visual C++ Express SP1].

  If you have any information about this error or how to resolve it without switching to a different version, then please post an [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/issues/list Issue].

= BWAPI Usage Errors =

  == Error: This application has failed to start because the application configuration is incorrect. Reinstalling the application may fix this problem. (14001) ==
  You are missing some required DLL files, most likely the Visual C++ runtime DLLs. For RELEASE builds you can download and install the [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/downloads/detail?name=vcredist_x86.exe Visual C++ Redistributables]. For DEBUG builds, you will need to install [http://www.microsoft.com/express/Downloads Visual C++ Express Edition].


= Chaoslauncher Usage Errors =

  == Error: Injection failed. This is caused when BWAPI crashes before injecting completely. ==
  _Note: The error code given after this message may be uninformative and/or unrelated._

  This is likely due to a feature in Windows Vista and its subsequent versions called "User Account Control"(UAC). As such, some Chaoslauncher features may be blocked if the UAC is activated. Other operating systems with similar User Account Control features could also be prone to this behavior.

  === To disable the UAC in Windows Vista: ===
    # Click the _*Start Menu*_ and select _*Control Panel*_.
    # In _*Classic View*_, double-click the _*User Accounts*_ icon.
    # Click the link labeled _*Turn User Account Control on or off*_.
    # Make sure that the _*Use User Account Control (UAC) to help protect your computer*_ is *not* checked.
    # Click _*OK*_ and restart your computer. After restarting, try launching Starcraft again through Chaoslauncher.