#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/UnitCommand.h# BWAPI/UnitCommand.h]

UnitCommand objects are currently used only as arguments to one function - [Unit#issueCommand Unit::issueCommand]. While units can be issued commands the normal way via the [Unit] methods (i.e. [Unit#attackUnit Unit::attackUnit]), in some cases you may want to have a function that can process any unit command, such as when you're writing a proxy for BWAPI.

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Methods =

== getType ==
[UnitCommandType] getType() const;

Returns the type of the command

== getUnit ==
int getUnit() const;

Returns the unit to which the command has been issued.

== getTarget ==
[Unit]{{*}} getTarget() const;

Returns the target unit of the command, or null if there is no target unit.

== getTargetPosition ==
[Misc#Position Position] getTargetPosition() const;

Returns the target position of the command, or Positions::None if there is no target position.

== getTargetTilePosition ==
[Misc#TilePosition TilePosition] getTargetTilePosition() const;

Returns the target tile position of the command, or Positions::None if there is no target tile position.

== getUnitType ==
[UnitType] getUnitType() const;

Returns the unit type of the command, or UnitTypes::None if the command is not of type Build, Build_Addon?, Train, or Morph.

== getTechType ==
[TechType] getTechType() const;

Returns the tech type of the command, or TechTypes::None if the command is not of type Research.

== getUpgradeType ==
[UpgradeType] getUpgradeType() const;

Returns the upgrade type of the command, or UpgradeTypes::None if the command is not of type Upgrade.

== getSlot ==
int getSlot() const;

Returns the slot of the command, or -1 if the command is not of type Cancel_Train_Slot. 