#sidebar TableOfContents

Class header file: [http://code.google.com/p/bwapi/source/browse/trunk/bwapi/include/BWAPI/UpgradeType.h# BWAPI/UpgradeType.h]

The UpgradeType class is used to get information about a particular upgrade.

List of all [UpgradeTypes].

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Methods =
== getID ==
int getID() const;

Returns the unique ID for this upgrade type.

== getName ==
std::string getName() const;

Returns the name for the upgrade type.

== getRace ==
[Race] getRace() const;

Returns the race the upgrade is for. For example, UpgradeTypes::Terran_Infantry_Armor.getRace() will return Races::Terran.

== mineralPrice ==
int mineralPrice(int level = 1) const;

Returns the mineral price for the specified upgrade level. For the base price, call {{{mineralPrice(1)}}}.

== mineralPriceFactor ==
int mineralPriceFactor() const;

Returns the amount that the mineral price increases for each additional upgrade.

== gasPrice ==
int gasPrice(int level = 1) const;

Returns the vespene gas price for the specified upgrade level. For the base price, call {{{gasPrice(1)}}}.

== gasPriceFactor ==
int gasPriceFactor() const;

Returns the amount that the vespene gas price increases for each additional upgrade.

== upgradeTime ==
int upgradeTime(int level = 1) const;

Returns the number of frames needed to research the specified upgrade level. For the base time, call {{{upgradeTime(1)}}}.

== upgradeTimeFactor ==
int upgradeTimeFactor() const;

Returns the number of frames that the upgrade time increases for each additional upgrade.

== maxRepeats ==
int maxRepeats() const;

Returns the maximum number of times the upgrade can be researched.

== whatUpgrades ==
[UnitType] whatUpgrades() const;

Returns the type of unit that researches the upgrade.

== whatsRequired ==
[UnitType] whatsRequired(int level = 1) const;

Returns the type of unit that is required for the specified upgrade level.

== whatUses ==
const std::set<[UnitType]>& whatUses() const;

Returns the set of units that are affected by this upgrade.

= Non-Member Methods =
== getUpgradeType ==
[UpgradeType] getUpgradeType(std::string name);

Given a string, this will return the upgrade type.

== allUpgradeTypes ==
std::set<[UpgradeType]>& allUpgradeTypes();

Returns the set of all the UpgradeTypes.